What is networks?
A computer network is a group of computers that use a set of common communication protocols for moving information from one device to another.

Open System Interconnect Model:(OSI Model)
1. Physical layer - bits - twisted cable, fiber optical cable
    it is underlying cable that transmits the data as bit.(1,0s)
2. Data link layer - Frames - ethernet
    Data link layer is responsbile for encoding the frames into bits and trasmit. After the trasmission, the data link layer will decode the bits into frames again.
3. Network layer - packet - ip(internet protocol)
    It is responsbile of trasmitting the packet to the destination from source.
4. Transport layer - segment - TCP(Transmission control protocol)/UDP User datagram protocol
5. Session layer - ICA protocal
6. Presentation layer - ASCII
7. Application layer - HTTP

Protocals and Port Numbers:
Application Layer of Protocols:
    Data Transfer Protocols
        Transferring Data:HTTP or HTTPs => (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol):80 or(Hyper Text Transfer Protocol secure):443
        File Transfer:FTP,sFTP,TFTP => (File Transfer Protocals):20 21,(secure File Transfer Protocals):22,(Trivial File Transfer Protocol):69,SMB(Server Message Block):445
        Email:(Server To Client):POP3(110/995) IMAP(143,993),(Client To Server):SMTP(25,465)
    Authentiation Protocols:
        LDAP - Lightweight Directory Access protocol    - 389
        LDAPs - Lightweight Directory Access protocol secure    - 636
    Network Service Protocols:
        DHCP(Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) server : send a IP Address,DNS,Subnet,etc..
        DNS(Domain Name System): It used to resolve the Ip address for given host name
        NTP (Network Time Protocol): NTP protocol will give UTC time from server
    Network Management Protocols
        TELNET:(23)
        SSH(secure shell)(22): it used to connect to another machine. we can exeucte scripts on the remote machine.
        SNMP - Simple network Management protocol
        RDP(Remote Desktop Protocol):it used to coneect to the other machine(3389).
        

    Audio/Visual Protocols:
        H.323(1720) - Audio/video protocol
        SIP(Session Initiation Protocol)(5060/5061) -  a signaling protocol used for initiating, maintaining, and terminating real-time sessions that include voice, video and messaging applications